.. _MessagesChapter:

Messages Resource
=================

.. _ResourceMessages: ResourceMessages

.. index:: 
   triple: General; Resource; Messages
.. index:: General; Messages Resource 

The Messages resource defines how messages are to be handled and
destinations to which they should be sent.

Even though each daemon has a full message handler, within the
:raw-latex:`\bareosFd `and the  |bareosSd| , you will normally
choose to send all the appropriate messages back to the
 |bareosDir| . This permits all the messages associated with a
single Job to be combined in the Director and sent as a single email
message to the user, or logged together in a single file.

Each message that Bareos generates (i.e. that each daemon generates) has
an associated type such as INFO, WARNING, ERROR, FATAL, etc. Using the
message resource, you can specify which message types you wish to see
and where they should be sent. In addition, a message may be sent to
multiple destinations. For example, you may want all error messages both
logged as well as sent to you in an email. By defining multiple messages
resources, you can have different message handling for each type of Job
(e.g. Full backups versus Incremental backups).

In general, messages are attached to a Job and are included in the Job
report. There are some rare cases, where this is not possible, e.g. when
no job is running, or if a communications error occurs between a daemon
and the director. In those cases, the message may remain in the system,
and should be flushed at the end of the next Job.

The records contained in a Messages resource consist of a
**destination** specification followed by a list of **message-types** in
the format: :raw-latex:`\index[dir]{Messages!destination}`

destination = message-type1, message-type2, message-type3, ... 

or for those destinations that need and address specification (e.g.
email):

destination = address = message-type1, message-type2, message-type3, ...
    | :raw-latex:`\hfill `
    | where

    destination
        is one of a predefined set of keywords that define where the
        message is to be sent
        (:raw-latex:`\linkResourceDirective{Dir}{Messages}{Append}`,
        :raw-latex:`\linkResourceDirective{Dir}{Messages}{Console}`,
        :raw-latex:`\linkResourceDirective{Dir}{Messages}{File}`,
        :raw-latex:`\linkResourceDirective{Dir}{Messages}{Mail}`, ...),

    address
        varies according to the **destination** keyword, but is
        typically an email address or a filename,

    :ref:`MessageTypes message-type`
        is one of a predefined set of keywords that define the type of
        message generated by Bareos: **ERROR**, **WARNING**, **FATAL**,
        ...

.. _MessageTypes:

Message Types
-------------

For any destination, the **message-type** field is a comma separated
list of the following types or classes of messages:

info
    | :raw-latex:`\hfill `
    | 
.. index:: 
   triple: General; Messages!type; info General
      information messages.

warning
    | :raw-latex:`\hfill `
    | 
.. index:: 
   triple: General; Messages!type; warning Warning
      messages. Generally this is some unusual condition but not
      expected to be serious.

error
    | :raw-latex:`\hfill `
    | 
.. index:: 
   triple: General; Messages!type; error Non-fatal error
      messages. The job continues running. Any error message should be
      investigated as it means that something went wrong.

fatal
    | :raw-latex:`\hfill `
    | 
.. index:: 
   triple: General; Messages!type; fatal Fatal error
      messages. Fatal errors cause the job to terminate.

terminate
    | :raw-latex:`\hfill `
    | 
.. index:: 
   triple: General; Messages!type; terminate Message
      generated when the daemon shuts down.

notsaved
    | :raw-latex:`\hfill `
    | 
.. index:: 
   triple: General; Messages!type; notsaved Files not
      saved because of some error. Usually because the file cannot be
      accessed (i.e. it does not exist or is not mounted).

skipped
    | :raw-latex:`\hfill `
    | 
.. index:: 
   triple: General; Messages!type; skipped Files that
      were skipped because of a user supplied option such as an
      incremental backup or a file that matches an exclusion pattern.
      This is not considered an error condition such as the files listed
      for the **notsaved** type because the configuration file
      explicitly requests these types of files to be skipped. For
      example, any unchanged file during an incremental backup, or any
      subdirectory if the no recursion option is specified.

mount
    | :raw-latex:`\hfill `
    | 
.. index:: 
   triple: General; Messages!type; mount Volume mount or
      intervention requests from the Storage daemon. These requests
      require a specific operator intervention for the job to continue.

restored
    | :raw-latex:`\hfill `
    | 
.. index:: 
   triple: General; Messages!type; restored The **ls**
      style listing generated for each file restored is sent to this
      message class.

all
    | :raw-latex:`\hfill `
    | 
.. index:: 
   triple: General; Messages!type; all All message types.

security
    | :raw-latex:`\hfill `
    | 
.. index:: 
   triple: General; Messages!type; security Security
      info/warning messages principally from unauthorized connection
      attempts.

alert
    | :raw-latex:`\hfill `
    | 
.. index:: 
   triple: General; Messages!type; alert Alert messages.
      These are messages generated by tape alerts.

volmgmt
    | :raw-latex:`\hfill `
    | 
.. index:: 
   triple: General; Messages!type; volmgmt Volume
      management messages. Currently there are no volume management
      messages generated.

audit
    | :raw-latex:`\hfill `
    | 
.. index:: 
   triple: General; Messages!type; audit
      .. index:: General; auditing  Audit messages. Interacting
      with the Bareos Director will be audited. Can be configured with
      in resource
      :raw-latex:`\linkResourceDirective{Dir}{Director}{Auditing}`.

The following is an example of a valid Messages resource definition,
where all messages except files explicitly skipped or daemon termination
messages are sent by email to backupoperator@example.com. In addition
all mount messages are sent to the operator (i.e. emailed to
backupoperator@example.com). Finally all messages other than explicitly
skipped files and files saved are sent to the console:

.. raw:: latex

   \begin{bconfig}{Message resource}
   Messages {
     Name = Standard
     Mail = backupoperator@example.com = all, !skipped, !terminate
     Operator = backupoperator@example.com = mount
     Console = all, !skipped, !saved
   }
   \end{bconfig}

With the exception of the email address, an example Director’s Messages
resource is as follows:

.. raw:: latex

   \begin{bconfig}{Message resource}
   Messages {
     Name = Standard
     Mail Command = "/usr/sbin/bsmtp -h mail.example.com  -f \"\(Bareos\) %r\" -s \"Bareos: %t %e of %c %l\" %r"
     Operator Command = "/usr/sbin/bsmtp -h mail.example.com -f \"\(Bareos\) %r\" -s \"Bareos: Intervention needed for %j\" %r"
     Mail On Error = backupoperator@example.com = all, !skipped, !terminate
     Append = "/var/log/bareos/bareos.log" = all, !skipped, !terminate
     Operator = backupoperator@example.com = mount
     Console = all, !skipped, !saved
   }
   \end{bconfig}
